[New Tutorial] Deploy a Smart Contract Using Hardhat (#908)
iota-wiki/iota-wiki: tutorials/pages/shimmerevm-hardhat.md

        owner.transfer(address(this).balance);
    }
}
```
The above is an auto-generated smart contract by hardhat. You can replace it with your own smart contract. But if you need to understand what the above smart contract does, it's a Lock contract, which will lock funds for a specific time period and allows withdrawls only past that point.
Some important things to note are data types. `event` means that we can subscribe to it like a webhook and wait for a ping to the client side whenever Withdrawl is triggered with `emit` from inside the function `withdraw()`.

### Setting up the contract

- Go to `hardhat.config.js`
- Update the `hardhat-config` with shimmer network details as shown below:

```js
module.exports = {
  solidity: "0.8.18",
  defaultNetwork: "shimmerevm-testnet",
  networks: {
    "shimmerevm-testnet": {
      url: 'https://json-rpc.evm.testnet.shimmer.network',
      chainId: 1071,
      accounts: [priv_key]
    }
  }
};
```

- Create `.env` file in the root to store your network id and jsonrpc in-case you'd like to keep it private. You can then refer them by `process.env.SHIMMEREVM_TESTNET_JSONRPC`.

:::note

> Note that the file above requires DOTENV, for managing environment variables and also ethers and etherscan. Make sure to install all those packages. 
> 
> Find more instructions on how to use DOTENV on [<ins>this page</ins>](https://www.npmjs.com/package/dotenv).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the file above requires DOTENV to manage environment variables and ethers and etherscan. Make sure to install all those packages. 

Find more instructions on how to use DOTENV in the [<ins>DOTENV npm package</ins>](https://www.npmjs.com/package/dotenv).
```

:::

> ### Compiling the contract

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Compile the Contract
```

> To compile the contract, you first need to install Hardhat Toolbox:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To compile the contract, you first need to install the [Hardhat Toolbox package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@nomicfoundation/hardhat-toolbox):
```

```sh
npm install --save-dev @nomicfoundation/hardhat-toolbox
```

Then, simply run to compile:

```sh
npx hardhat compile
```

> ### Testing the Contract

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Test the Contract
```

To run tests with Hardhat, you just need to type the following:

```sh
npx hardhat test
```

And this is an expected output:

![Hardhat Test](../static/shimmer-hardhat-test.png 'Hardhat Test')

> ### Deploying on ShimmerEVM

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Deploy Your Contract on ShimmerEVM
```

Run this command in root of the project directory:

```sh
npx hardhat run scripts/deploy.js --network shimmerevm-testnet
```

The contract will be deployed on ShimmerEVM Testnet, and you can check the deployment status here on the [explorer](https://explorer.evm.testnet.shimmer.network/).

If you want to further verify your contract, add the following to your `hardhat.config.js`:

> ```js

Reviewer: ````suggestion

```js
````

etherscan: {
  customChains: [
      {
          network: "shimmerevm-testnet",

>           chainId: 1071,

Reviewer 2: You need to add a API key dummy value here or it will complain

Author: Added.

          urls: {
              apiURL: "https://api.evm.testnet.shimmer.network/",
              browserURL: "https://explorer.evm.testnet.shimmer.network/"
          }
      }
  ]
}
```

Then you can verify by running:

```sh
npx hardhat verify --network shimmerevm-testnet <address> <unlock time>
```

> And Voila! You've successfully deployed your first Hardhat Smart Contract on ShimmerEVM and also verified it on explorer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And Voila! You've successfully deployed your first Hardhat Smart Contract on ShimmerEVM and verified it on explorer.
```

# Deploy a Smart Contract Using Hardhat

:::info

Hardhat is a powerful development environment for building smart contracts on the Ethereum blockchain. Whether you're new to blockchain development or an experienced developer, Hardhat can help you build better, more reliable smart contracts.

In this tutorial, you will learn how to set up Hardhat and use it to build, test and deploy a simple smart contract on ShimmerEVM.

:::

## Pre-requisites

- [Node.js Stable Version](https://nodejs.org/en/)
- [Git](https://git-scm.com/)

## Create the Project

Let's start by creating a new node project:

```sh
mkdir projectname
cd projectname
```

Initiate npm:

```sh
npm init -y
```

Install hardhat:

```sh
npm install --save-dev hardhat
```

Now, let's create a new hardhat project. Run in your project root:

```sh
npx hardhat
```

:::note

The sample project used here comes from the [Hardhat Quickstart guide](https://hardhat.org/getting-started/#quick-start), as well as its instructions.

:::

You should see the following prompt:

> ![Hardhat Setup](../static/shimmer-hardhat-setup.png 'Hardhat Setup')

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
![Hardhat Setup](/shimmer-hardhat-setup.png 'Hardhat Setup')
```

# Deploy a Smart Contract Using Hardhat

> :::info
> Hardhat is a powerful development environment for building smart contracts on the Ethereum blockchain. Whether you're new to blockchain development or an experienced developer, Hardhat can help you build better, more reliable smart contracts.
> 
> In this tutorial, you will learn how to set up Hardhat and use it to build, test and deploy a simple smart contract on ShimmerEVM.
> :::

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
:::info

Hardhat is a powerful development environment for building smart contracts on the Ethereum blockchain. Whether you're new to blockchain development or an experienced developer, Hardhat can help you build better, more reliable smart contracts.

In this tutorial, you will learn how to set up Hardhat and use it to build, test and deploy a simple smart contract on ShimmerEVM.

:::
```

Reviewer 3: Docusaurus recommends new lines here as best practice. There are some edge cases that could break the formatting if you don't use new lines 👍

## Pre-requisites

- [Node.js Stable Version](https://nodejs.org/en/)
- [Git](https://git-scm.com/)

## Create the Project

Let's start by creating a new node project:

```sh
mkdir projectname
cd projectname
```

Initiate npm:

```sh
npm init -y
```

Install hardhat:

```sh
npm install --save-dev hardhat
```

Now, let's create a new hardhat project. Run in your project root:

```sh
npx hardhat
```

:::note

> The sample project used here comes from the [<ins>Hardhat Quickstart guide</ins>](https://hardhat.org/getting-started/#quick-start), as well as its instructions.

Reviewer 3: Not sure why the `ins` tag would be needed here?
```suggestion
The sample project used here comes from the [Hardhat Quickstart guide](https://hardhat.org/getting-started/#quick-start), as well as its instructions.
```

:::

You should see the following prompt:

![Hardhat Setup](../static/shimmer-hardhat-setup.png 'Hardhat Setup')

Choose the JavaScript project and go through these steps to compile, test and deploy the sample contract.

> :::note Typescript
> If you're comfortable with typescript, feel free to select it. There's not much difference for this project. However, some syntax might differ.
> :::

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
:::note Typescript

If you're comfortable with typescript, feel free to select it. There's not much difference for this project. However, some syntax might differ.

:::
```

        require(block.timestamp >= unlockTime, "You can't withdraw yet");
        require(msg.sender == owner, "You aren't the owner");

        emit Withdrawal(address(this).balance, block.timestamp);

        owner.transfer(address(this).balance);
    }
}
```

The above is an auto-generated smart contract by hardhat. You can replace it with your own smart contract. If you want to understand what the smart contract does, it's a Lock contract, which will lock funds for a specific time period and allows withdrawals only past that point.
Some important things to note are data types. `event` means that we can subscribe to it like a webhook and wait for a ping to the client side whenever a withdrawal is triggered with `emit` from inside the function `withdraw()`.

## Set Up the Contract

1. Go to `hardhat.config.js`
2. Update the `hardhat-config` with shimmer network details as shown below:

```js
module.exports = {
  solidity: '0.8.18',
  defaultNetwork: 'shimmerevm-testnet',
  networks: {
    'shimmerevm-testnet': {
      url: 'https://json-rpc.evm.testnet.shimmer.network',
      chainId: 1071,

>       accounts: [priv_key],

Reviewer 3: I guess it would make sense to link or describe how to get a private key. Many IOTA devs may never have worked with SCs

Author: Maybe a separate post on how to extract your private key from wallet?

Reviewer 3: Or for now just link to some guide on how to get it from a metamask account? 🤔

Reviewer 3: Yeah that's what I meant. No need for our own guide right now 👍

Author: added

    },
  },
};
```

3. Create a `.env` file in the project root to store your network id and jsonrpc if you want to keep it private. You can then refer to them by `process.env.SHIMMEREVM_TESTNET_JSONRPC`.

:::note DOTENV

Note that the file above requires DOTENV to manage environment variables and ethers and etherscan. Make sure to install all those packages.

> Find more instructions on how to use DOTENV in the [<ins>DOTENV npm package</ins>](https://www.npmjs.com/package/dotenv).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Find more instructions on how to use DOTENV in the [DOTENV npm package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/dotenv).
```

:::

## Compile the Contract

To compile the contract, you first need to install the [Hardhat Toolbox package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@nomicfoundation/hardhat-toolbox):

```sh
npm install --save-dev @nomicfoundation/hardhat-toolbox
```

Then, simply run to compile:

```sh
npx hardhat compile
```

## Test the Contract

To run tests with Hardhat, you just need to type the following:

```sh

> npx hardhat test

Author: Right. I ran it before changing the network. Will remove this.

- Click close icon on top to close the screen.

Follow [this article](https://helpwithpenny.com/export-and-import-metamask-private-key/) for further detail.

:::

1. Create a `.env` file in the project root to store your network id and jsonrpc if you want to keep it private. You can then refer to them by `process.env.SHIMMEREVM_TESTNET_JSONRPC`.

:::note DOTENV

Note that the file above requires DOTENV to manage environment variables and ethers and etherscan. Make sure to install all those packages.

Find more instructions on how to use DOTENV in the [DOTENV npm package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/dotenv).

:::

## Compile the Contract

To compile the contract, you first need to install the [Hardhat Toolbox package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@nomicfoundation/hardhat-toolbox):

```sh
npm install --save-dev @nomicfoundation/hardhat-toolbox
```

Then, simply run to compile:

```sh
npx hardhat compile
```

## Deploy Your Contract on ShimmerEVM

Run this command in root of the project directory:

```sh

> npx hardhat run scripts/deploy.js --network shimmerevm-testnet

Reviewer 3: Here I get:
`ProviderError: request might require more gas than it is allowed by the VM (50000000), or will never succeed`

Author: Do you've balance on your account?
It worked for me.

Reviewer 3: Let me check if I used the correct private key. But maybe will need until tomorrow. It's late already 😅 
Sorry 😅

Reviewer 3: My bad, I used the wrong private key with no funds on it. Thanks

```

The contract will be deployed on ShimmerEVM Testnet, and you can check the deployment status here on the [explorer](https://explorer.evm.testnet.shimmer.network/).

If you want to further verify your contract, add the following to your `hardhat.config.js`:

```js

> etherscan: {
>   customChains: [
>     {
>       network: 'shimmerevm-testnet',
>       chainId: 1071,
>       apiKey: 'ABCDE12345ABCDE12345ABCDE123456789',
>       urls: {
>         apiURL: 'https://api.evm.testnet.shimmer.network/',
>         browserURL: 'https://explorer.evm.testnet.shimmer.network/',
>       },
>     },
>   ];
> }

Reviewer 3: This is the wrong config:
It should be:
```suggestion
etherscan: {
  apiKey: {
    'shimmerevm-testnet': 'ABCDE12345ABCDE12345ABCDE123456789',
  },
  customChains: [
    {
      network: 'shimmerevm-testnet',
      chainId: 1071,
      urls: {
        apiURL: 'https://api.evm.testnet.shimmer.network/',
        browserURL: 'https://explorer.evm.testnet.shimmer.network/',
      },
    },
  ],
}
```

```

Then you can verify by running:

```sh

> npx hardhat verify --network shimmerevm-testnet <address> <unlock time>

Reviewer 3: Here I use the contract address and the timestamp I got from the deploy step, correct?
I get this error:
```
Error in plugin @nomiclabs/hardhat-etherscan: Failed to send contract verification request.
Endpoint URL: https://api.evm.testnet.shimmer.network/
The HTTP server response is not ok. Status code: 404 Response text: {"Message":"Not Found","Error":""}

NomicLabsHardhatPluginError: Failed to send contract verification request.
Endpoint URL: https://api.evm.testnet.shimmer.network/
The HTTP server response is not ok. Status code: 404 Response text: {"Message":"Not Found","Error":""}
```

So is something still wrong with the config?

Author: Yeah getting error now. Maybe api is down. Had tested this a while ago. Let me get back on this.

Author: My bad. The URL was wrong. Try now. Should work.

Reviewer 3: Hmmm. Maybe I'm too stupid for this, but now I get:
```
Nothing to compile
Successfully submitted source code for contract
contracts/Lock.sol:Lock at 0x30a773e646f984f23b5673b2fde78C18b4B0FB01
for verification on the block explorer. Waiting for verification result...

We tried verifying your contract Lock without including any unrelated one, but it failed.
Trying again with the full solc input used to compile and deploy it.
This means that unrelated contracts may be displayed on Etherscan...

Successfully submitted source code for contract
contracts/Lock.sol:Lock at 0x30a773e646f984f23b5673b2fde78C18b4B0FB01
for verification on the block explorer. Waiting for verification result...

Error in plugin @nomiclabs/hardhat-etherscan: The API responded with an unexpected message.
Contract verification may have succeeded and should be checked manually.
Message: Unknown UID

NomicLabsHardhatPluginError: The API responded with an unexpected message.
Contract verification may have succeeded and should be checked manually.
Message: Unknown UID
```

Reviewer 3: Ok, seems to be a network problem. Worked now without problems

:::

## Compile the Contract

To compile the contract, you first need to install the [Hardhat Toolbox package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@nomicfoundation/hardhat-toolbox):

```sh
npm install --save-dev @nomicfoundation/hardhat-toolbox
```

Then, simply run to compile:

```sh
npx hardhat compile
```

## Deploy Your Contract on ShimmerEVM

Run this command in root of the project directory:

```sh
npx hardhat run scripts/deploy.js --network shimmerevm-testnet
```

The contract will be deployed on ShimmerEVM Testnet, and you can check the deployment status here on the [explorer](https://explorer.evm.testnet.shimmer.network/).

If you want to further verify your contract, add the following to your `hardhat.config.js`:

```js
etherscan: {
  apiKey: {
    'shimmerevm-testnet': 'ABCDE12345ABCDE12345ABCDE123456789',
  },
  customChains: [
    {
      network: 'shimmerevm-testnet',
      chainId: 1071,
      urls: {
        apiURL: 'https://explorer.evm.testnet.shimmer.network/api',
        browserURL: 'https://explorer.evm.testnet.shimmer.network/',
      },
    },
  ],
}
```

Then you can verify by running:

```sh

> npx hardhat verify --network shimmerevm-testnet <address> <unlock time>

Reviewer 3: Should we add a note here too about how to get those?

Something like:
```suggestion
npx hardhat verify --network shimmerevm-testnet <address> <unlock time>

:::tip Address and unlock time

You can easily copy the address and unlock time from the output of the [deploy step](#deploy-your-contract-on-shimmerevm) above
:::
```

```

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

:::tip Address and unlock time

You can easily copy the address and unlock time from the output of the [deploy step](#deploy-your-contract-on-shimmerevm) above

:::

```
